Robert Russell: Hi, Robert. Hi.
Robert Russell: How are you fine. Are you doing
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What happened to you yesterday.
Robert Russell: I was was working late I hadn't worked a lot of hours.
Robert Russell: I was sleeping. I didn't get up in time. I apologize.
Robert Russell: Group. So just man. No man.
How's the family.
Robert Russell: Doing good. Just trying to stay positive and not think about that virus stuff. I know it's very hard. It's hard because every day. It's like, it's like the triple story of the last days. Oh.
Robert Russell: Yeah, it's crazy but
Robert Russell: Hope for the best.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what's going on in New Mexico or they put anything in place.
Robert Russell: Like they have, like, like, like the main store like yeah like like the main stuff like like doctors offices and like
Robert Russell: Things like that can stay open and no other stores are closed down and stuff like and I got like some capacities that are in place, but you can only take so many people in the store at a time.
Robert Russell: You can only buy like so many items.
Robert Russell: At a person today, stuff like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They're doing that here, too, in Florida.
Robert Russell: Yeah, so they're i mean they're, they got a little bit of precaution going, but I think they need a little bit more
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Definitely. Definitely a lot more
Robert Russell: To get done just man, but we'll see. Hopefully it just
Robert Russell: Goes way said 14 days right
Robert Russell: Is like
Robert Russell: Having like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's hard to enforce the 14 days because not everyone staying home so
Yes.
Robert Russell: That's what we need, we need a two week or like a two and a half week does a lot now everybody has, has it stay home I'm great.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, because then the virus would definitely come to a stop.
But
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, I guess the government's hesitate to do that.
Robert Russell: lose too much money. Yeah, I think that's what it is.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What would you like to talk about today, any current stressors frustrations.
Robert Russell: Not I'm not gonna stress. I'm doing pretty good actually. I just chillin yeah look
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For you.
Robert Russell: This I talked my girlfriend ally and then like hanging out my baby and then
Robert Russell: Then my brother. I often help now. He's a little bit stressed out because he just got out. So being, how, how can you stay level helping him out. Jim, and then
Robert Russell: What's nice is it a listen to music work and
Robert Russell: Hang out my kids, but it's all, it's all day activity. I got it takes up all my day working and taking care of a baby and and plus the school's out. So the other kids at home all day too. So, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, headache, all around.
Robert Russell: Yeah, but they keep moving to keep it busy so yeah
So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's, let's discuss what happened in group last week.
Robert Russell: All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was your, what was your perception about that experience.
Robert Russell: Of my work for me what happened for me and group.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Do you recall with
Robert Russell: No, I know. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just saying, like a plane.
Robert Russell: Darrell a group in general like with anybody also just personally me personally, but I just think I, for one, I'm not a good talker. I don't have like
Robert Russell: To just talk to
Robert Russell: Anybody just like having a little conversation. Like, I don't have like I get frustrated. Like I do get frustrated
Robert Russell: Really bad and then like if I'm speaking about something like I know to be 100% true and my heart are I believe it to be 100% to my heart. At least then I speak like with a lot of passionate and like like
Robert Russell: I don't shut up. I don't listen and I just say I gotta say to them. And so, but I got it, I got back four or four communication skills.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I was able to witness in group, some of the things that you've talked about in the past with your challenges with communicating, you'll have a valid point. But the delivery comes off aggressive and then the emotions you know tackle on so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When I told me about i'm not i haven't experienced that. And I did see it in group. So I understood the intention because of what we talked about
Robert Russell: Last weekend, right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, people will just really work the program. They'll definitely benefit, but when you get caught up in the semantics of generic and vice versa, it just it deters you from your long term sobriety now.
Robert Russell: There's a piece of defeats the purpose because there's
Robert Russell: Other places.
Robert Russell: Other places to go. We were they like to get on thrash or it's easy to blow smoke up that so to sit at this one spot.
Robert Russell: This for that long, and not be your only problem you only have one problem. You don't have like a different home every week, you just have one problem. So understand, like, what, it's all right. I mean, to each their own. I just
Robert Russell: How
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you think the group member receive your
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your statements.
Robert Russell: I think is, I think, pretty quite as much why I know that I want to take us back like if I can help it. I added like a mouse, but I think that I hope that he took it like in a right way or wrong way.
Robert Russell: And I mean, not like to be mean or nothing like that or like I know more than anybody or like like my like my input is there and need to be listened to. Yeah, I just got poor communication skills and then sometimes like to give advice, though.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I, I was able to witness that because what I saw at the beginning was all the information that you've been holding for so many groups to just release. And then at the end of the group and you engaged. Again, it was more settling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But what I want us to focus on an ongoing communication because the the coin, the content of what you're trying to communicate is accurate.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But because one you already have a high pitched voice, we add it with the delivery, people can get. Oh my gosh. And so I witness that include. So let's think about thoughts, feelings, and behaviors and how they all interact to leave for to that response.
Robert Russell: So I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Had the ongoing thought about this group member and another group members and just kind of being manipulative, not really.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not really working the program the way it should be. So that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I can get the benefit and also so that you don't have to deal with listening to these things during the group time that's important for you as well. You're taking away your valuable time from your family to come in for something that can be beneficial.
Robert Russell: But you're in the right people complain that and then I look at it through the eyes like because I used to be like lit the person listening to someone say that like good people that really want to be there, like, go on, you know, happy to be here, like that.
Robert Russell: Like I remember like hearing that actually like a lane. Like, I don't know, but I was like true for there's people that want to be there like an everybody nobody's there because they have to be there because they're going to die. If not, they're like,
Robert Russell: Yeah, be there by choice. So, definitely. That's why I come from, like, on that definitely
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You made a very empowering statement that everyone is there by choice.
Robert Russell: Brown and so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The thought was that, and then the feeling behind that of the consistency of the group members showing up. Was that frustration of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Come on. And so the behavior that was witnessed was that frustration that came out. And so what got lost in translation. Was it the content, but the frustration.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so how you said that, then what happens is you keep talking. And it's hard for you to stop because now you release is that frustration that still wants to be released.
Robert Russell: Yes, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If you were to imagine a place to put all that bottled up frustration where and you only have the key, no one else had the key, where would you bottle in place, all of that frustration.
Robert Russell: I think, I think I have a real good I think. I don't think my problem is like learning how to bottle stuff up. I think either kind of bottled up my whole my whole my
Robert Russell: Whole life. I think my phone and keeping my bottles categorize and put in whatever in whatever model and whatever another follow up stuff.
Robert Russell: And then releasing pressure on them all because my mom just specialized specialized that boom. It's slow
Robert Russell: But I could like if I can breathe or Burt my models and organized and I think that would help me out a lot.
Robert Russell: I know I do know how to
Robert Russell: Like me, I can take a lot, a lot, a lot. It's just, that's my problem is is
Robert Russell: Knowing how to knowing a positive way to take it in. So I don't release it in a negative way. Okay. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you said that you will want not just a container you will want different containers that can separate the different
Robert Russell: Right, because that's just the type of person that I am, I am, because I'm like a real organized and like I got OCD. So, but that'd be like the best way to explain it, but our looks like one big bottle and it is sticker different sides of the walls, I guess, I don't know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the way I envisioned it is the story motion right you lock it in the box. And whenever you get into that place of frustration, you use that imagery to go to that box where you can say
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, I made my point. The rest of this frustration I have. I'm going to put it in this box and locking up because that will help with the stopping
Robert Russell: You made your point right stop.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that's what I was envisioning, but I'm curious to hear about your imagery of several different bottles and and how you would categorize it. What would be in those different containers.
Robert Russell: I'm just like, I'm just saying, like, for bottling stuff up like cuz like emotions like people Kabbalah, you could bottle up stuff like
Robert Russell: Like your irritation with coworkers or your irritation with family members or your are like you're maybe you're doing a project guilty. Something you get in here and it looks like over a long period of time.
Robert Russell: Or what are your sobriety, or whatever, like, just keep that pattern.
Robert Russell: That category like for a person like me who overthink things and dump the same personally for me like that overthink things and and then my biggest thing is like my perception of how
Robert Russell: What people are saying I like I i take it for everything as like I'm defensive like everything like I have to be on my defensive like if someone's just a little ladies first time meeting or whatever, like
Robert Russell: Like nine times out of time. I'm like, I my guard like this because like my, my mind is going. Now because I guess I still am a little confused analyzed. But that's what I mean like, I'll just put like a focus on
Robert Russell: That one model and learn how to control me that way. I could just, that's my problem is trying to control 100 things at once, and then I can and then I get frustrated. But if I can learn
Robert Russell: To put them like what's prioritize them. What's more human, and then I'll just talk that's that's like, like that's like, just like the first step of the staircase to just try to get my style.
Robert Russell: Not so frustrated matter thinking everybody's out, arguing that you mean that everybody's out there trying to burn somebody or just come off a yummy. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm I'm understanding what you're saying now because you're saying that not to take likes frustrations that may be with coworkers out on family members, not projecting those frustrations on other people. So that's why I
Robert Russell: Gotta separate
Robert Russell: Yeah, that's the part of the year.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I you can see I shared my screen with you, cuz I'm curious to know if you could think of the last time that you had that experience of frustration.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In that moment, where would you rate yourself if you see here. Let me zoom in a little
Robert Russell: I got it, yeah. Oh man, like, just for like my last recent time like I just stretched out.
Robert Russell: Of, like, I don't like i don't i that's the, that's the big about me, my, my thing is from zero to 100 like I don't
Robert Russell: Like, and it's whenever I'm stressed out about whatever it's like that, like, and it's like it's like if I'm we're tired like a like a work and I haven't said yet, then it's a little bit more because I'm tired of more irritable, but so I give probably would have been highlight very anxious
Robert Russell: He's not like almost screaming, he said.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What
Are you thinking of
Robert Russell: Like
Robert Russell: Let me see. Last time I got
Robert Russell: All whenever
Robert Russell: A school
Robert Russell: Called my
Robert Russell: Call me and my girlfriend her son, and we went down there.
Robert Russell: And they said that because when he was playing and tickling and not listening and they said they are. They're saying, well, they're not going to call it parents and we're just going to call the cops if y'all. Listen. And so my girlfriend. My girlfriend told
Robert Russell: Our son will, you know, you're in trouble and you're going to get a spanking when you get home.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, that is supporting all that
Robert Russell: Yeah so. And yeah, so that stuff. And then I just very kind of stuff. Say anything comes up or something like
Robert Russell: That was the last time I got like still like
Wait.
Robert Russell: Oh wait, you know, I've tried to my social security card. The other day too. And I probably wouldn't bring food.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So after something with your social security card.
Robert Russell: Yeah, I remember, the other day I get my social security card online. You can't go in there and I'm trying to do my taxes, that's fine. And yeah, and
Robert Russell: I was. And at the time I was doing it the deadline had had been hadn't been moving on to school and
Robert Russell: In a few days. So I was I was, I called him, I suppose, credit card in that dude kept on telling me to do it online and stuff and
Robert Russell: An online process to get through the first step it all ask you is what your first name is your middle initial your last name your social security number and your birth date.
Robert Russell: And then to get there going, and it wouldn't even let me get past that screen and kept on saying that I'm putting in invalid information.
Robert Russell: So I called them to try to talk to me and I had a sound hold every time I talked to him for about 3045 minutes and it was like
Robert Russell: I don't know, I feel like the website. I think the website was just there, so they can get people off their phone line determined determined for their from their phone lines for a couple minutes. Yeah, but I kind of, I kind of got a little bit a
Robert Russell: Hostile over the phone.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the way you described, that was it was it was progressive you know you started off with making the phone call and then each hold it. Just progressively, you know, got worse.
Robert Russell: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where would you say you were when you first picked up the phone and make the call when you realize you were having issues with with the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With the online application. Where were you at
Robert Russell: A. I was just I
Robert Russell: guess you could say like alert and awake like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: At a 10 okay yeah so you were here. You were either 10
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then when did it escalate. A little higher. What happened next to make it go higher than attend
Robert Russell: whenever, whenever I asked if there's any other possible way that I could talk to somebody out besides what i'm talking with because I know the questions and answering answering aren't getting answered and
Robert Russell: And then they went pretty much told me that
Robert Russell: She was that like there was nobody else to talk to that she was doing to the road and if she could help me. Then I couldn't get help.
Robert Russell: And I, that's what made me. I'm pretty mad because
Robert Russell: She didn't want to let you know mean not even not just even to talk to another person. I got that.
Robert Russell: I got a little bit of a confrontation with us. Like, that's why.
Robert Russell: I did. I got I got, like, like, like the big respecting so like when it goes to that point, I take it, like as like
Robert Russell: Like dishes checkers is probably I think a little bit crazy by taking a disrespect and then I go off of that. And so I live in my respects and if I start being a little bit belligerent
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So. So the plan is I'm being disrespected
Robert Russell: Again, I said, Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And
Robert Russell: I guess that's the foundation of it. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Then you have the thought and then the feeling is what
Robert Russell: Give an excuse of it. The feeling is, it's just I don't like the feeling. This is just, I'm always I feel like
Robert Russell: I'm mad. I definitely different always feel like angry definitely angry. You're not angry like our
Robert Russell: Angry but
Robert Russell: When I don't know how like what you're angry about like so, like, it's like I'm
Robert Russell: Trying to figure out what a man. It's crazy, because I get mad about nothing. So, and then make a time I'm trying to figure out why I'm mad, but then I know that
Robert Russell: Because I'm Clenching my face, or because I'm mad or something or that there's someone I think someone trying to dishes Becker is trying to diss or you're doing something on purpose or something like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, good. I like how you describe the clinching of the fish because what I was going to say next is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When you feel it in your body so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is what you'll be doing to progressively work on that anger management and he said, as one of your goals is to see
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What actually lead you to go from zero to 100 because a lot of people say that but I honestly don't like that it progressively escalates, the way you said
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Our, our levels of frustration or like those calls that you experience it. You start off
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, very level tempered. Someone says something and that feels like that. First person to say sorry I can't help you live a chance for you to someone else.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then the next day chaplains you transfer it to someone else, you have to explain it all over again. Take it progressive. That's how we act in our everyday situations when we get triggered with the thought of being disrespected, and then anger is it's progressive
Robert Russell: You start off
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Probably add a zero or 10 you're fine. Or, like you said, if you have very little rest, you're probably at a 20 or 30
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then someone probably gives you a look. And so now that 30 has jumped and then after the look, there's a comment and because you've already been out of 30 it can jump so, sir. Whole idea between behind the subjective unit of distress scale is to help people to identify
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What exactly what happens when they jump through different temperatures and if they can stay at a certain temperature, it makes them think well what am I doing to keep me at, for example, a 60
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In the past, I would have jumped to a 90 but I'm feeling like I'm at a 60. So what is the self talk that I'm utilizing to keep me from getting to that.
Robert Russell: Does that make sense. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So any experience with the the color when you call it about the social security and just using that as an example to bring it home.
Robert Russell: Is that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where you found yourself that you were getting to the point of I'm being disrespected, you would already know. Okay, Robert whenever I have the thought of being disrespected my next feeling is anger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what top, could I introduce so that I cannot have this thought of being disrespected, what could you have said yourself to a place that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm being disrespected
Robert Russell: And I could just remind, like I do, if I could, something I could do is to remind myself that guy remind myself that I'm the one calling them and I need help. If it's a situation like that where I knew need to help or whatever or
Robert Russell: Then to just remind myself just remind myself I remind myself to a lot that I am I am not it on before, not me no more that I'm dad, and I'm a civilian like whoa.
Robert Russell: I think I could read it and i can i gotta keep I remember like it's different, different out here like like I really never really understood, like the whole continents concept of institutionalization
Robert Russell: Like, even though I hadn't had it for a long time, like until I executives really like this is like really chose this recently.
Robert Russell: Until I really started thinking about like myself and hype and acting and I really want to do good and not go back and
Robert Russell: Then trying to break it down like what's making me have problems what like is angry or sad like emotions and then like what how having to talk and do all this right now so
Robert Russell: I think that
Robert Russell: The more and like this come a long way. So I know it works so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, yeah. So you gave a lot of self affirming statements that okay this is where I am. I'm not in jail.
Robert Russell: I've come a long way.
Robert Russell: You know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm asking them for help. So, you know, why would they want to disrespect me
Robert Russell: Exactly. This is keep it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Robert Russell: Just keep common sense as always think, don't, don't think you rational rational thought
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is what I talked about in group. Last night I said that sometimes are distorted pat on patterns of thinking, have become so automatic we repeated them so much. So they actually become automatic thoughts.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, that's why it's been this transition for you and it's been a struggle because, you know, probably even before your incarceration probably had some challenges with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Feeling destroyed or being angry.
Robert Russell: And so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so your body what automatically regulate to a fight response activating that central nervous system and so your thought would be disrespect my feeling would be anger and then the behavior would be aggression yelling etc and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The more that since got activated, your body will respond. Okay, the thought came up again that robbers being disrespected, let's activate that central nervous system and going to fight mode.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because your body responded over time for so long to that now you have to retrain your body to not have that fight response.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To to activate the parasympathetic nervous central, central nervous system, which is more calming and relaxing. The way to do that is to replace the thought replace the feeling so you could change the behavior.
Robert Russell: Right.
Robert Russell: Slowly but surely I definitely am definitely
Robert Russell: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what I want you to do is this week to to love the fact the feeling and the behavior. This is what we did in group to this is what we're working on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So identifying you recognize your trigger is disrespect. So we'll work on that whenever you hear or feel the fat of disrespect coming up. I want you to love. If the automatic feeling is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anger, like you said, or if it changes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: ever been a time that you felt that you thought this respect and you felt sad.
Robert Russell: I mean, there's definitely been times I felt disrespected and and and Bella even scared probably cuz I mean places that I've been like you got it. Like, and I'm not a very big person so
Robert Russell: And then plus. And so I'm saying, and to make them proud of nothing but it's just fact and to make it to be like
Robert Russell: Have made it like how I made it and where I made it for as long as they made it and to come out like this the same way I went in, in a sense, it's, it's a
Robert Russell: It's a good accomplishment. But that's for that lifestyle for on Biggs, and for like
Robert Russell: pieces of crap and people that value that stuff. He will that take time that people like I used to be that used to think that there was that there. That was my only are that that get if I did gave 10 years when I get it back.
Robert Russell: Down and I mean like all my time on also danger option down in like it was just
Robert Russell: Like, I guess, I guess I can say, cuz I was young, I hope. I know, but I just definitely grow up and change my thought pattern so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. What do you think, what do you think made you adapt to changing that thought pattern.
Robert Russell: This my kids, then my kids and my family might like my family like my immediate family got a bunch of family but I gotta ask, and a cousin, and my brother and they just always
Robert Russell: Like when I got out they were always there and like you just
Robert Russell: That's just, I gave that a little bit of hope and I mean that someone that don't don't don't give up on you. That's why people like they don't give up. I mean, I mean, or something like that expanded it has helped me out. I guess in contact got tired of being locked up and
Robert Russell: Realizing that every time I'm going to do something for a home you are with the only that it was just probably just so they can get out of trouble. I have something to tell him. Yeah.
Robert Russell: Well, yeah.
Robert Russell: Then, plus I stopped doing all kinds of drugs to so that that may have a party to that to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The drugs and response activating the there's the sympathetic response that is the fight, flight, or freeze. And then there's the parasympathetic that's more fully and relaxing.
Robert Russell: So why
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Were people that have the anger management, you want to activate that cooling relaxing nervous system. Often, and that that helps to the self talk
Robert Russell: You know, right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Early yourself what the opposite is what your brain is telling you and I liked how you share that there are times when I felt disrespected, and the feeling wasn't anger. It was here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it's good that you have the various feelings in reaction to the thought. Um, when you're at home, you know, in the relationships, how we play it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: play a part, to know our children. They try us sometimes so you know when they have to disrespect or when your when your partner says something, you feel disrespected, you know, maybe you're you're feeling his anger, but it probably doesn't go well with
Robert Russell: Right. Yeah, it's definitely the idea, and that's a big thing that helped me out so much because I always always always have had, like,
Robert Russell: A good connection with my kids and then like even like my cousin say there anyways is like
Robert Russell: Because I tackle the guideline because of my institutionalization I even started get locked up when I was really, really young and I went to like mental institution to like Matt was like young and so
Robert Russell: So like I was just like my soul. I was stuck like a Institute like institutionalized. I got a young age. So
Robert Russell: I guess got along like whenever I was 18 and stuff like that. I still was like a kid in my head I was like a little child going to be like a night wasn't didn't have a job and
Robert Russell: I would just be a bone and see my couches and
Robert Russell: Stay with my family for free.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now look at you working adult responsible adult
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And active parent, you know when when that call came in. It was admirable that it was you and your child's mother that went to the school. It wasn't just her showing up.
Robert Russell: You were president
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, some some fathers or even mothers would have said, all right, one person is going to be there.
Robert Russell: But the fact both of you went
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Together says a lot about how you guys parent your children.
Robert Russell: Exactly.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And even though you were you knew you were activated and your, your distress scale was rising, you still know that you needed to be there to advocate for your child.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To write
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To be that example for your child to protect your child and also to let the score know that what we're not going to do is, you know, try to make threats about means of my child.
Robert Russell: Right exactly that you were
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Able to communicate them effective way because they were apologetic at the end.
Robert Russell: Yes it did work and it worked out off and it did work out because like I said, I can now I was able to when
Robert Russell: I did take a walk when all it was going down. They came over here to talk radio get all hyped up and say, I'm just gonna take a walk and I'll come back and then I came back in school.
Robert Russell: Like had been had been like pie like even like 30 days ago, I wouldn't know how to do that. Yeah, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's what this. That's what this just distress Gail helps you to realize what it is that you did differently so that over time. Bill Koch.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To the next time you feel disrespected, you may think, last time I felt this level of distress. The last time I was a 90 I decided to take a walk. Let me try that again and see if it cools you down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And more than likely it's going to work because you're able to see in the numbers that I was at a 90 I took that walk after you took that walk. Where did you drop down to
Robert Russell: Always good. I can probably drop down all the way
Robert Russell: To like a 10 or 20
Robert Russell: But could I was gone for, like, I went for a little walk through fire when you're 30 minutes so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, and it doesn't matter the duration. You went you pulled up but and you came back.
Robert Russell: So that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That was very effective anger management right there that yes, even though I'm walking away. I'm still coming back to the issue and I'm still going to address it, but I need to regulate myself right now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, you probably felt the same way your body that gave you that signal that you are being activated. Where did you
Robert Russell: Learn your body extract pacing pirates are painting and then get. I get hot warm
Robert Russell: And then I talk fast I talk fast and then I tripled my work class good like excited or like, I want to say something like
Robert Russell: I just, I try to say everything I want and then all the words that come at once. I sound like a stuttering stammering or maybe that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Also happened in group. So you see
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your body will mirror the exact same thing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Each time, so the beauty of that is that you get to catch it right away because you already know how your body's going to function.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then you can take the opportunity to okay are you know what's happening right now. I'm getting activated. I'm increasing my distress scale to a 90 I need to reduce
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You do that. It's like, you decide. Let me take the pot of boiling water off of the stove. Let me put it to the back burner where there's no key. And what happens to that pot of boiling water.
Robert Russell: Right, it cools down south boiling. Exactly.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this is what you're going to do it takes lots of imagery and thought stopping to get to this point but I definitely believe that you're more than capable of doing it because you've done
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That was good. Do you have any other questions.
No, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When can we meet again.
Robert Russell: What as every week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Need to do every other week.
Robert Russell: At that it is why and do the next thing to do is tweet from today. As for
Robert Russell: As long as it. Well, like I said, My obviously we purport 10 O'clock for you, but like after after five or five and after and before eight o'clock in that pool.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like bilking our time is good for you.
Robert Russell: That's perfect. I guess it's gonna work. But yet, you're
Robert Russell: Not sleeping.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, it'll already be April 15 wow April 14 ok so i'll see you next Tuesday, April 14 at five o'clock.
Robert Russell: Yes, ma'am. All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thanks. Take care. Don't forget to log it. Okay.
Robert Russell: Good thoughts, feelings, and
Robert Russell: Behaviors that's man. All right. Take care. Bye.
Robert Hammond: Hey, are you doing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you
Robert Hammond: Good. Are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm doing okay i think i overbooked myself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because I have another six o'clock. So what I'm thinking is I'm just going to do our meeting for 30 minutes and see if that person if that person pops in. I'll just ask that person to wait about 30 minutes. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. All right. Just give me one minute. Let me grab my phone so I can be in contact and, in the event he shows up. OK.
Robert Hammond: OK, no problem.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how have you been, it's been like it's been a long time since we last spoke
Right.
Robert Hammond: A couple weeks ago right
Robert Hammond: still staying away from that one.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tell me about that. She tried to come back.
Robert Hammond: Yeah, she did all those things, but still a they'll my ground so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what is holding a brown me, how did you communicate to her that we engage in that
Relationship.
Robert Hammond: Basically I told her I didn't want to be hanging out with her anymore, things like that. I stopped trying to help her.
Robert Hammond: So that when I got her because she had she was constantly calling trying to get me to help her do something
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, how you feeling about that.
Robert Hammond: Yeah.
Robert Hammond: I think it'll actually help or more in the long run.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, that's what boundaries boundaries is an opportunity to protect yourself and also gives the person an opportunity to practice healthy behaviors. So this is going to help her to identify
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know how to operate in her future relationships and what will and will not be tolerated. This teaches you that you can be able to exert discipline and saying, no, this has been hard for you, your friends, you said take advantage of you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The girlfriend was. And so how has the same no experience been for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Robert Hammond: It just, it always be good for me good for everybody else up
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What, what other relationships healthy exercise the privilege of saying no.
Robert Hammond: Just read some friends asking for help and stuff.
Robert Hammond: You know when I got other things to do.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Robert Hammond: You know, you could tell it. So I'm gotta kind of Webster thinking that I was supposed to drop everything just for them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how, how has the whole pandemic. How have you been adjusting with everything that's been going on.
Robert Hammond: Honestly, I'm still trying to adjust. I
Robert Hammond: I still go out and everything.
Robert Hammond: Try to find work and all that.
Robert Hammond: So, which is like more scary. Now, you know, try to make a living.
Robert Hammond: So I'm doing anything I can like right now. I'm actually building somebody a harness
Robert Hammond: The dog.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was good that you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this is the thing I was thinking about this today that the beauty in being self employed, is that you make your own schedule.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You can be flexible. You don't have to entertain anyone in regards to really have to go why you can't, you know, be there.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But then the downside of situations like this where you don't have the protection of, you know, a system that can keep you employed and really having to get creative and think outside the box to make ends meet.
Robert Hammond: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So have you been, you know, keeping your, your anxiety and check in. Okay, doing those little check ins with yourself.
Robert Hammond: I kind of had like a couple of panic attacks when they weren't they weren't that bad.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When was the last time you experienced that.
Robert Hammond: That was like, about two days ago. Oh, what happened.
Robert Hammond: I don't know, it was, it was weird. I just started thinking. Next I know my mind started wandering
Robert Hammond: Going out to different things and I started panicking.
Robert Hammond: Thinking about buying and all that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My dying.
Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you mean, like, what if you die or wanting to inflict that on yourself.
Robert Hammond: Know what have I done
Robert Hammond: Yeah, like didn't sickness, although
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh yeah, everyone is it is it regards to the coronavirus
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. Nothing practically everyone is having that fear, you know, God forbid I catch it. What is how my body respond to it. So it's normal to have this anxiety. But I'm curious to know what makes you say was a panic attack versus anxious thoughts.
Robert Hammond: Just the fact that I started like hyperventilating, like, sweating like crazy.
Robert Hammond: Like I was traveling to rule. Yeah, yeah.
Robert Hammond: So,
Robert Hammond: I know I hate when I get like that because it's hard for me to start calming down like after that.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, I know that there's been a lot of people that are experiencing so stresses doing this point and this is a tool that I've been using
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To help people regulate when they get anxious. So this is a subjective unit of the stress scale and they helps you to identify in those moments of distress exactly what level you're at
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the benefit of putting a number to it is one, it separates you from just saying I have anxiety. It gives it a number and it makes it more manageable to play with.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, and then it helps you in overtime to see what coping skills, what self talk you put in place so that you don't continue to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: rise in temperature. So, two days ago when you started having these thoughts. Tell me, moment by moment, like when that thought first occurred, what what temperature. Were you
Robert Hammond: Surprised by like a
Robert Hammond: LIKE I HAVE YOU LIKE ABOUT about 70 so I was all cool cool then once it started it started going up like as a about like 10 degrees at a time. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you say you started at a 7070 says you were already quite anxious, you're already distress that was interfering with your functioning and you started to feel some symptoms in your body.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Robert Hammond: When I first when I first started, it was
Robert Hammond: Like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'd say about 40 4040
Robert Hammond: Okay, so let's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Our anxiety, which is probably what we're all on right now. During this time, we're, we're probably at a 20 to 40. Um, and so when did it shift from a 40. What was the next step. But what temperature was it at when you went to the next.
Robert Hammond: The next word that that's when I started freaking out a little bit because I started getting knowing that I had this anxiety and that's it went up to about like maybe 5060
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you started revealing moderating side they started feeling signs that you weren't actually anxious. What were those signs.
Robert Hammond: That's when I started reading like I started getting like the shakes the
Robert Hammond: Like the vision started going like, like everything was like cartoonish typing.
Robert Hammond: Oh, wow. Wow. Like you just feel like, like I'm not really
Robert Hammond: Like I'm not there. Yeah. Like, it's like a dream or something.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we got to have a 60 didn't get any higher than 60
Robert Hammond: No, because by then I knew I was in a panic attack and I started doing the coping.
Coping
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm thinking, based on the fact that you said you had the blurry vision.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Everything seemed like a cartoon, and you were sweating. That seems a little like a 70 or 80 but you're saying there was a 60 so that tells me that maybe this wasn't your worst experience of a panic attack.
Robert Hammond: Oh, no.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even that you see how that number helped me to say like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For someone that never expect a panic attack, they probably will put that at 100 but you put that at a 60 and that helped me to see that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This must have been nothing compared to the other anxiety, panic attacks you experience some curious to know what kept you from getting to that 90 because you already had the had the science here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was it the science that huge you to calm yourself down or was it the it's the ongoing experiences of having panic attacks that made you calm down.
Robert Hammond: Why just because I hadn't before and I knew that there are no okay the fact that I know that again really die for them.
Yeah.
Robert Hammond: Like I can, I can actually pass out and stuff like that but
Robert Hammond: You know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That in that moment that I can't die from this
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, good. I like that self talk. Robert, because that also tells me, then the past we experienced panic attacks like most people, they think I'm going to die.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because it's so scary, but because you've had the lived experiences. Unfortunately, of these panic attacks you were able to rationalize
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And beat that destroyed thought that was telling you you're going to die. What she did. Robert, and I'm not sure if you're aware of it, you activate it yourself talk
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's self talk then activate your parasympathetic central nervous system, which is the one that's coming and by you telling yourself. I'm not going to die.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your body probably received that message and started to calm down just a little
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was that your experience.
Robert Hammond: Right. Yeah, that's exactly what's happening, like a shirt. I started more relaxing a little bit more. Mm hmm.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the reason for that. Robert, is because everyone ready a panic attacks, depression, substance abuse, anger management. We all have thoughts, feelings, and behaviors.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So thoughts and feelings control the behavior.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But so when you had the thought of anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the feeling of fear or anxiety, your behavior was your body that reacted to panic attacks.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's go into fight, flight, or freeze of reasonable. So, but instead you told your body, calm down. You're not going to God.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then it said, Okay, let's stop the fight, flight, or freeze let simmer down the amygdala and let's tap into the parasympathetic central nervous system that's going to pull ourselves back
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To you believe that nice simple statement could activate all of those things in your body.
Robert Hammond: Yeah, cuz
Robert Hammond: I know, it's crazy. I remember when I read a book about read all the panic disorder and let
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Me.
Robert Hammond: And I was like, what
Robert Hammond: And it was talking about that what you said about that. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what's good for you. Robert, is to continue to use that self top of saying not gonna die. What else did you tell yourself.
Robert Hammond: To try to slow my breathing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So did you do that, did you start taking
Robert Hammond: Deeper breaths. Right, I'll do the 10 second breath that hold it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The belly breathing.
Right.
After you experience the time
Robert Hammond: Yeah, actually, uh, I called up a while I started texting. One of my friends just talk to him.
Robert Hammond: You can get me out of that state of mind. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Happen into your social support system.
Robert Hammond: Right, right. I didn't tell him I was having a panic attack ready
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, they don't need to know all the time. Sometimes
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You just need connection in that moment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because fear creates a lot of isolation fear makes you believe that you're all alone that no one else understands what your experience. And so by you tapping into your social supports that took away that feeling of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Feeling alone having it here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was going on. What were you doing when that panic attack happened.
Robert Hammond: Actually, I was just watching TV. You know, I started thinking about that, you know, the whole epidemic.
Robert Hammond: And then it started leading me to start thinking about everything. I read in the Bible and stuff.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Were you watching the news.
Robert Hammond: No, you just had one of those little flash mornings you know about things like an update.
Robert Hammond: Day all alert.
Robert Hammond: And then I remember, I got a text.
Robert Hammond: From somebody where they're showing all the tanks that they're going in.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, what, what, what did you read in the Bible that made you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Call today. This is areas of distress.
Robert Hammond: Just about like the Book of Revelations where it talks about that the Senate trumpet and all that. Yeah.
Robert Hammond: And then I'll just bring it all together, like how Trump got elected president
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So all of those things, all of those experiences.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Seeing it play day by day and it's it's impacting your daily function, you know, you're trying to look for work. It was already hard to find work and now just intensifies the job search for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And and now your body's being activated by distress. But what I'm hearing you you activated that parasympathetic central nervous system by doing some belly breathing doing that positive self talks to defeat the destroy thoughts and then connection with someone so support to you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want to invite you to use your imagination of the here and think about in this space of distress.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To see if you could also as an additional support. Think of a protective figure
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This person could be real or imaginary
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But what this protective figure would represent is whenever you get in distress. It's something that you can go to as an additional anchor.
Robert Hammond: By God,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That could be a protective. Yeah, that could be a protective figure. So the way that resource in would you would work is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Robert is feeling distress, who started out of 40
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Robert starting to feel that he's getting a little more anxious, it's creeping up to 70
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, no, no, no. Robert started talking so he's got himself down to 50
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He goes to call his, his social support the person doesn't answer.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now the protective figure which for you, you identified as God and you got that real quick. There's some people that they really struggle with trying to figure out who that person will be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that tells me you have a strong connection.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Already you go into God
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You may think of different Bible verses that you dread.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Different Bible characters that exhibit strengthen that moment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you would say
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Another self affirming statement.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this is giving me just access to multiple resources to help you with Tommy anxiety.
Robert Hammond: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you think that's something you would be able
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To apply
Robert Hammond: Yeah, those are actually things that I do, actually. I didn't even step that I was doing them. Yeah. Okay, so you're protected figure
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So now we're going to expand our team. We talked about how you regulate your body talked about your social support.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So your team is going to consist of your wise figure, you're protected figure in your nurturing figure who are already identified God as your protective figure who would be your life speaker.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: real or imaginary something or someone that represents wisdom.
Robert Hammond: Go with the same one.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, nurturing figure
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is something that would bring comfort.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Make you feel secure.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Real imaginary. Some people say grandparents and people say, blankets, anything that just makes you feel cozy and comfortable.
Robert Hammond: I say the medication.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, we can't use that one.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Person that's activating it addictive state.
Robert Hammond: You don't want that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's fine because this is this is a new skill set that will be building is something to think about real or imaginary. The first time I did this, I have to think for a while to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, so with the nurturing figure. Some people think about people that they were really connected to that may have passed away, or they think of different
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People different objects.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, but it would be something that you feel could talk to you in that moment or comfort you. So I know I mentioned the example of the blanket.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But if the blanket was like, say, your baby blanket that you remember carrying around, you know, from when you were a baby. You remember what color it was. You could seal kit bag nurturing figure from it because you have those positive memories connected to it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Think that represents a positive memory of connection support.
Robert Hammond: Remember we know one of my exes.
Robert Hammond: ended up passing away.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With remembering her happened to your depression.
Robert Hammond: Yes, we had great times together. Oh, okay.
Robert Hammond: Was like nothing bad. Oh, good. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I just wanted to make sure that these figures are safe spaces for you to tap into. And they don't introduce other
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Feelings for you, other than nurturing. So if that is what it is for you been good. So God represents your wise speaker, you're protected figure and your ex girlfriend represents your nurturing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: loving, nurturing about that relationship.
Robert Hammond: That she was, she was always ever me
Robert Hammond: You know, whenever I need help, or anything. Just, just there to give me that push
Robert Hammond: You know, everybody else kicking me down. I was beginning. She was building me back up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I want you to try this on the next time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That you feel a moment of stress. I want you to think of the thought the feeling and the behavior.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I would want you to write down
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What is Robert thinking. And then what is Robert feeling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How is Robert behaving.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Assess that every day until we me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then tell me if you notice any patterns.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Does robber have a lot of thoughts of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Fear.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, catch those patterns when people may identify, they have the thought pattern of them rejection or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And and then with that rejection, the feeling becomes hurt.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so the way they may be. Hey, just by being angry.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And if they would allow that over time they would be able to say, you know what, I realize that when I'm angry. It's really more so because I'm hurt. So what if I communicated to someone that they hurt my feelings, instead of just getting angry.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This tool would would be helpful to can help you to manage those feelings of anxiety.
Okay. OK.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anything you could do.
Robert Hammond: Yeah, okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So let me just look at your treatment plan, real quick. The know it's been a while. And I want to see the progress that we're making.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tonight I definitely see a difference from the first time we met.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You opening up more like it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm in your treatment plan.
We have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We have identify how spirituality and religion impacts your recovery process. This is very evident because you are identified God as your protective in your wise figure. So I would definitely say that you're making great progress with that, um, would you agree.
Robert Hammond: Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You said you want to work on your physical health, follow up with rehab therapy and medical attention for your leg.
Robert Hammond: Good. I've actually
Robert Hammond: I've been working on my leg more but I gotta take a risk because it feels like different now.
Robert Hammond: So I didn't know if I was like oh restraining it
Robert Hammond: Already my club words.
Yeah.
Robert Hammond: And what's
Robert Hammond: My left. Okay.
Robert Hammond: When I read over
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh my girlfriend right
Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You want to try to keep busy and find where he said you already doing that and working as we speak.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you want to get your kid back
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's what you that's also what you put in your treatment plan.
Robert Hammond: Right, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You realize that's an uphill battle but you said you can identify the barriers that impact your ability to get custody, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Remember last time. A few weeks ago, when we spoke, you talked about finances and help with getting some type of finance financial support to help out with that. Where are you in that process.
Robert Hammond: Radar, like I said, have you been struggling just to make it right now.
Yeah.
Robert Hammond: So,
Robert Hammond: I still haven't reached out to him.
Robert Hammond: I was actually going to put a post up. See if and get her attention.
Robert Hammond: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What would you post
Robert Hammond: Basically saying if she could get old. To me free talk. Okay.
Robert Hammond: Try to keep it simple. Yeah, right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you want to be absolute abstinent from using. How long have you been playing
Robert Hammond: What is it being just it's just blowing smoke on me. So what
Robert Hammond: Three weeks, four weeks.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are blowing smoke it caused you to relax.
Robert Hammond: Well basically I mean it was in my system.
So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And and building a relapse prevention plan that's what we've been working on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Identifying thoughts, feelings, and behaviors and thought stopping what triggers certain responses from you, um, you said you want to update your resume.
Robert Hammond: Right, I already got that one done. Okay, good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Think of things that you like to do that make you happy and make you laugh.
Robert Hammond: Right, like boiling and all that. Mm hmm.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in your relapse prevention plan you identify emotional triggers relationship triggers events relationship sugar. I have is the girlfriend that you're you're with. But she's gone. So that's good. You remove the trigger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Event situations.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was more so like talking about your son, but I seen a shift, even when you talked about your son. Now you have a little more hope when you talk about it not as the prestige and we're in the past.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Me.
Robert Hammond: I would say, anger, but
Robert Hammond: I had a controller liked where I could get out of a Broadway.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Healthy called
Oh, sorry. Go ahead.
Robert Hammond: Well, like, once I do get angry. It's like, I know I have a tendency to like blow up like quick. Mm hmm.
Robert Hammond: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Skill I showed you, because a lot of people tend to tend to think, especially people that have anger management, they often say
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They go to zero from 100 real quick. And that's not true. What happens is there's different levels.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That activates these responses to you, don't jump from no distress, all the way to the highest level possible anxiety that you ever felt your life.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It doesn't happen. So one of the things to do, because people use that that statement I go from zero to 100 real quick. It's almost like a justification statement for the anger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And people don't realize that seen that it's almost like it's a statement to the world of saying don't take me off. It's almost like an intimidation factor.
Robert Hammond: Got tipped me off.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because I'll go from here to here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's not true. That's not who you are. There are different things that needs Robert to elevate and Roberts already identified
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Through his physiological symptoms. His heart racing is shortness of breath. The sweating Robin are waiting realizes, okay, I'll go from zero to 100 I go from zero
Robert Hammond: Maybe 1230
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then from a 30 to about a 50 and if I find myself getting into a 60 or 70 I can bring myself back down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it's way more manageable then going straight from zero to 100 that leaves no room for accountability of being able to adjust your anger and being able to work on it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So reframe that statement here. We hear somebody say it remind them that actually you don't. There's different triggers if you identify that can help you to not go from zero to 100
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I hope this scale helps you to to put that a correlation and and really help you to see the numbers to see that you are definitely in control. You had been in control.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Of stopping this this distress for yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: doing a good job.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we have emotions. The anger, the self soothing behaviors yourself top
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You been going to group. You've been coming to individual
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any new goals that you want to add to your treatment plan short or long term.
Robert Hammond: Oh, what was that
Robert Hammond: I'm still working on the smoking.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Smoking. Okay. Are you working with the
Robert Hammond: Yeah, okay.
Robert Hammond: Let's add that work on quitting smoking.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any other triggers that you've
Noticed
Robert Hammond: I know like I like smoke alarm or like right before I go to meetings and so forth.
Robert Hammond: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's that anxiety. You told me about you get anxious about speaking in groups.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that
Robert Hammond: Will help you to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The next time you about the group before you go check in with yourself, say, Where am I from zero to 100
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then when you log into virtual clinic, see if that number goes up a little bit.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When you log into your group room, see if the number increases.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Increases then be curious to find out what's leading to the increase and if it doesn't
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Find out how committed
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To empowering us
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, okay, yeah.
Robert Hammond: All right.
Robert Hammond: Okay, okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Robert Hammond: My charger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is march 31 Please record this session as a treatment plan review the next review will take place, June 31 for 30 days in June. So, June 30 2020 patient is making minimal progress.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In certain goals patient is making moderate progress in regards to spirituality
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Moderate progress with trying to keep busy and find work he's making minimal progress with getting his kid back with staying abstinent from using and developing a relapse prevention.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He's making and is still working in progress towards identifying is emotional relationship and triggers, as well as a working progress with this supports.